HOSTAGE FAMILY PRESSURE
During their attack, Palestinian militants seized 251 hostages, both soldiers and civilians. Previous truces have allowed some to be released in exchange for Palestinians held by Israel, but 97 are still in Gaza. The Israeli ministry says 34 of these are dead.  

After Israeli forces killed Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar earlier this month, seen by observers as an obstacle to a hostage deal, pressure has mounted on Netanyahu's government from both hostage families and the international community to agree on a ceasefire to allow the rest of the captured to come home.

Critics in Israel have also accused Netanyahu of obstructing mediation for a truce and hostage-release deal.

Under the plan announced by Sisi, "four hostages would be exchanged for some prisoners in Israeli jails", followed by more negotiations within 10 days aiming to secure "a complete ceasefire and the entry of aid" into the Gaza Strip.

Israel's Defence Minister Yoav Gallant, also speaking on Sunday, said that, "Not all objectives can be achieved through military operations alone ... To realise our moral duty to bring our hostages home, we will have to make painful concessions."

But renewed talk of a possible ceasefire came as violence continued to rage, and Israel launched a deadly bombardment against the Lebanese city of Tyre, collapsing an entire apartment block even before issuing a warning to civilians to evacuate the area.An AFP journalist in the city saw that an Israeli strike had already pancaked an entire block and, according to the health ministry, the bombing killed at least seven people and wounded 17.

Hezbollah said it ambushed and clashed with Israeli troops near Lebanon's southern border and fired rockets at a Haifa-area naval base inside Israel.

Israel did not immediately confirm the targets but said 115 projectiles had been fired over the frontier.  Hours after an initial strike that demolished the residential block the Israeli army issued a warning to Tyre residents, telling them to leave ahead of another attack on Hezbollah targets there.

Last month, Israel escalated strikes on Hezbollah bastions across Lebanon and launched ground operations, following a year of low-intensity exchanges and cross-border attacks that the Lebanese group says were in support of Hamas.

At least 1,634 people have been killed in Lebanon since Sep 23, according to an AFP tally based on official figures.UNBEARABLE
In Gaza, rescuers reported fresh strikes on Monday.

The Palestinian Red Crescent said three people were killed in a drone attack on Gaza City, while the civil defence agency and an AFP correspondent reported more air strikes and shelling in other areas of the territory's north and centre.

Since Oct 6 the military has been carrying out an air and ground assault in north Gaza to destroy operational capabilities it says Hamas is trying to rebuild there.

On Monday the military said it had Jabalia, in the north, and "eliminated dozens of terrorists in ground and aerial activity".

An Israeli military official, briefing reporters on condition of anonymity, said the goal is to clear the Jabalia refugee camp of militants, which "will take us at least (several) weeks" to achieve.

He said there was "heavy fighting" in areas where Hamas militants were present.The official said Israel was not forcing residents to leave, claiming that "the safer zone in the Gaza Strip is in the south, but it's up to them" to decide whether to go.

The process has left 100,000 people trapped in a "siege", Gaza civil defence agency's spokesman, Mahmud Bassal said late Sunday

"For 22 days, not a drop of water or bread has entered the northern Gaza Strip," Bassal said in a statement.

Stephane Dujarric, the spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, said, "The plight of Palestinian civilians trapped in North Gaza is unbearable."

